WHAT MAKES AN EXPERIENCE AUTHENTIC? 

Urban life is completely disconnected from natural experience. There is no night in New York City, only an artificial dusk that lasts until dawn.  

In dusk.space, I want to synthetically recreate the experience of being in a remote country field at dusk – in the last place you would expect to encounter it. Everything about the experience is designed to evoke the sensations and feelings of the real thing, while always being obviously and unequivocally manufactured.  

Visitors arriving at the dome will notice the sweet and clean smell of Premium Grade Fresh Cut Grass Fragrance Oil as they walk past the stands of 36-40" Tall Natural Meadow Grass in Green. The diffuse sounds of Ambient Cricket Loop will fill the air. Entering the dome, they will feel the unmatched softness of the SYNAugustineX47 dense thatch below their feet.  Looking up, they will see the sharp twinkling of the Ultrabright White 5mm Untinted Non-Diffused LED stars above.   

WHAT WILL PEOPLE TAKE AWAY?

I hope that everyone who comes will enjoy the simple pleasure of lying in a field on a warm summer night looking up at the stars, even if it is only a simulatation.

Many will also appreciate the spectacle of a massive matte black dome structure, adorned with tiny white lights, and surrounded by tall vegetation… dropped in the middle of a lower Manhattan streetscape. It will be awesome!  

At the deeper level, I hope some will notice the juxtaposition of the scene within a scene. Beyond the hedgerow is the street, below the grass is the asphalt, and above the stars is the hazy glow of the city visible through the shadow of the geodesic lattice.  

Finally, I hope a few will stop to think about the meaning of authenticity of experience in our technologically advancing artificial world. If you enjoy an experience,  does it matter that it is created rather than spontaneous? If we take each aspect of a real experience and individually amplify it, can the resulting hyper-real experience be better than the original? What makes an experience authentic? Virtual Reality does not necessarily involve wearing a headset - for many of us it is our daily existance. 

ABOUT ME 

I was 30 the first time I ever stood outside under a truly dark night sky and saw the stars. I was awestruck… and scared.
